[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: If we go back here,
I'm gonna click on the example up here.
>> Brian Holt: First of all
this little method up here,
this is basically console log for
the DOM [LAUGH].
That I mean, you can essentially ignore
it, but every time I'm doing that.
It's just writing something down here.
Let's talk about CodePen for a second.
So first all, if at this point
you don't have a CodePen account.
I'm gonna go ahead and
suggest you sign up for one.
You don't have to, but
one, they're super great.
I love the guys over CodePen, guys and
girls I should say, guys and women.
And then the second part is that you can
fork these, you can click this little fork
thing up here and then it'll
save it to your CodePen account.
And you can refer back to these later,
so I think that's useful for you.
Okay, so let's look at just
the worst application of
recursion but
very basic version of recursion.
It's hard to say.
Try and say that seven times fast.
Okay.
So basic recursion.
If you look down here,
you can see down here is
just logging out 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, right?
>> Brian Holt: So,
it's like what we did here.
Called basicRecursion with five and
one, right?
Basically I wanna say,
what's the current number in a recursion?
And what's the max number I
wanna log out here, okay?
So, the first line
[COUGH]
>> Brian Holt: The first
line of any recursion.
I'm not gonna say any recursion but I'm
gonna say it's about the first line of any
recursion I've written, so
I'm gonna just extrapolate that to you.
And say, it's gonna be like
all the recursion you write.
Is the first line gonna be the base case.
The base case is when you stop recursing,
and the reason why you write this
first cuz if you don't write it,
you get a stack overflow.
That's why you have to
have your base case and
you want it like have that very well
handled first, is like when do I stop?
So in this particular case, I wanna
stop when current is larger than max,
as soon as it's larger the max,
it's like okay, done get out of here.
So that's what this is, okay?
And then all I'm gonna do is write out
what current is to the DOM, and that's it.
And then after that I'm going
to call itself basicRecursion,
right,?BasicRecursion is
calling basicRecursion.
And I'm gonna call it with max because
I'm gonna keep passing that max down.
And then I'm gonna call (current+1) right?
So, let's get this.
>> Brian Holt: So as you might imagine, so
we're gonna call it first with one right?
Where's that?
Let's get a white here
>> Brian Holt: So
we have white, there we go.
So we first call with one, so
that's what current's gonna be and
then if you just imagine
this as a call stack.
So we call it with 5,1 and
then it's gonna call it with 5,2, right?
Then it's gonna call it with 5, 3,
then it's gonna call it with 5,
4, 5, 5, and then actually,
it's gonna call it with 5,
6, let me put that over here, 5, 6, right?
But once it reaches that 6
is greater than 5, right?
Geez, I can't draw, but you get the point.
So that's one current is larger than math,
and at that point starts returning, right?
And then at that point, it's gonna
start coming down the stack, right?
So it's gonna start popping these offers,
so then it's gonna do this,
it's gonna do this.
Right now, we're not doing
anything after based recursion.
But at this point, we could do
something after based recursion right.
So, you can do things going up and
down the stack, right?
And then you eventually get there,
and then when it's over, right?
That's the basic gist here.
>> Brian Holt: So any questions?
This is a very worthless
application of recursion.
Something that you really should not do.
This should be done with a loop, right?
But that's just to demonstrate to
you what it's for, or how it is.
So let's look at an actual
real application
Fibonacci sequences, right?
So, let's bring this up again.
Close that.
>> Brian Holt: So, if you look down here.
>> Brian Holt: Most of us are familiar
with Fibonacci sequences but
I'll explain it.
I promised this wasn't gonna get mathy and
it got mathy again so, sorry not sorry.
Okay, so
Fibonacci sequences are basically the two
previous terms added together, right?
So 1 plus 1 is 2, 2 plus 1 is 3, 3 plus
2 is 5, 5 plus 3 is 8, right, so on and
so forth and then those numbers
start getting pretty large as you
start getting higher and higher, right?
So this one plus this one, 18th plus
19th term is the 20th term, right?
>> Brian Holt: So, let's look at actually
how you would do that using recursion.
So let's first discuss how we
settled on using recursion
in this particular case,
while we have the 18th term
which is defined as the 17th
term plus the 16th term.
So Fibonacci is our recursively
defined because it's defined
using Fibonacci's, right?
So, that's why recursion lends
itself well to this problem.
So we have Fibonacci,
takes in a number and
can be any number and
then the first thing we do is what?
Base case, right?
So if it's less than or equal to two,
that's just a given number.
It's just one, right?
That's the given thing in
Fibonacci sequences as I promised.
I guess another little side note here.
You could do, if n === 0,
or n === 1, right?
Because all those are really the ones
that we anticipate seeing, right?
Fibonacci of negative one
doesn't really make much sense.
At least it doesn't to me.
I don't know what it does.
However with your base case is, you wanna
be pretty aggressive cuz what happens if
someone does throw in there like negative
one, negative two, or something like that.
Your base case then gets out
of whack right, and then you.
I don't know what's going
to this one's gonna do.
It's just gonna infinitely recurse
because you're gonna be adding
negative one to negative two,
negative three to negative four.
And it's just gonna recurse into oblivion,
right?
So that's why you wanna
do things like these,
where it's pretty aggressive in terms
of what your base case is gonna be.
Cuz you wanna guard yourself against you,
either yourself or others, right?
Cuz someone at some point is gonna
call Fibonacci with negative one, and
then your entire program blows up.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
so if it's less than or
equal to two then you just return one,
right?
That's the given.
Else, we're going to return Fibonacci
of n -1 plus n of fibonacci of n- 2.
That feels like, at least to me,
that looks really nice,
it's very well written and it's pretty
clear of what it's doing, right?
You're just a top.
If I have fibonacci(n),
it's defined as fibonacci(n-
1) + fibonacci(n- 2), it works well.
Yeah, pretty exciting stuff.
However, let's talk about why
this actually is kind of crappy.
[LAUGH] Well,
going back to our console down here.
Going down here to the numbers 6765,
right?
That's a huge number.
You have to think about what's actually
happening underneath the hood here.
We're actually adding one because
everything else only ends up to being one.
We have no larger value that
starts out larger than one, so
that says in order to achieve this number
we added 1 to itself, 6,765 times.
Which is not the most efficient
way to derive a number, right?
So that's why this solution
actually kind of sucks because
we called the function 6,765
times at least, right?
So while this is very elegant,
and works very well for
this problem is very readable, you're
actually probably in this particular case.
If it was a bottleneck for you, you
actually probably wanna write this using
loops and the loop version of
this is gross and nasty looking.
Well I mean,
it's certainly not this elegant anyway.
But in any case,
that's how you would solve this problem
that lends itself well to recursion.
And see, these are trade-offs that you
need to make in your head is like,
well can I afford to have
the elegant code here, right.
Because if you call this once
a day then what the hell,
add your number a bunch of times and
call it good.
But if this gets done with every
user request is like, yeah,
you probably want to use loops or
iterations for that.
Any questions?
>> Speaker 2: Okay,
[COUGH] what's the big O on this one?
>> Brian Holt: Big O on
this one would probably be.
>> Brian Holt: You have to go
through everything at least once
>> Brian Holt: And log in,
I'm gonna guess, I don't actually know.
So, that's a guess but good question.
>> Speaker 3: There's another question,
can you explain how WR function works?
>> Brian Holt: Sure,
from shift value, okay?
WR, this is some ES6 magic.
Okay, so this is an arrow function.
An arrow function is just another way
to write a function in JavaScript.
This is a default parameter.
Maybe it's helpful to just write this.
>> Brian Holt: So
another way to write a function, right?
This is a default parameter,
it says if you're not given anything for
this then have a default parameter.
So, a way of doing that is if I
didn't get anything from message,
then message equals that, right?
Whatever how many I put.
And then on saying right here,
is document.write.
This is an ES6 template string,
which if anyone's ever written bash before
that syntax should look familiar to you.
Basically it's saying
substitute this here or
you could just do br plus msg.
That's also the same thing.
So, this is the ES5 version of that.
Singles are equivalent now.
So, good question.
>> Speaker 4: Technically you're
returning document, right?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
this is an implicit return.
I mean I could do this and
it wouldn't be an implicit return.
In this case, it doesn't matter
because I don't care what it returns.
But if you leave off the curly
braces in an arrow function,
it's an implicit return.
>> Brian Holt: We stole
this from CoffeeScript.
Not a huge CoffeeScript fan,
but this turned out okay.
So thanks, CoffeeScript.